### Python Clients
-----------------

These are the python clients used for the two main operations relating to the robot: 

	* Motion(Motor) controlling
    * Receive sensor-data and publish to BAM.

Publishing the sensor data to BAM/CEP is enabled in two different ways:

	1 The Python client directly publishes the sensor data to the BAM/CEP Thrift-port
    2 The Python client publishes the sensor data to BAM/CEP by making a REST call to a service endpoint deployed in a WSO2-AS instance.

We have provided seperate python clients to be run for each of these two scenarios. In the first case the given python client directly publishes the sensor-data to a running instance of WSO2-BAM.

For the second scenario ofcourse a running instance of the WSO2-AS is required and the *.war* file generated by building the project at */Arduino Robot/RestService/ConnectedDevices/* needs to deployed in it. The python client makes an HTTP call to an endpoint of the deployed service which in return publishes the data to WSO2-BAM.


### Folder Structure
-----------------
* **PythonTestClients** : *Seperate test clients to test each of the two main operations mentioned above:*
	- **sendControl.py**: Test motion control of the robot according to signals sent from the keyboard.
    
	- **PublishDirectToBAM**: Test client & required libraries to recieve and publish sensor-data (from the robot) directly to BAM.
    
    - **PublishViaRESTEndPoint**: Test client to recieve and publish sensor-data to BAM by a REST call to the service in WSO2-AS.
    
* **PythonRobotController** : *Final python client to be run with both robot operations put together:*
	- **DirectPublishClient**: Final client with sensor-data being directly published to WSO2-BAM.
    - **RESTPublishClient**: Final client with sensor-data being published via a REST call to the service at WSO2-AS.
    

#### Configurations
-----------------
* **REST based client** : 
	- *serverIP*: IP of the machine in which the WSO2-AS instance is running   
	- *serverPort*: WSO2-AS HTTPListener port. (default - 9763)
    - *[OPTIONAL]*: Provide appropiate values for the following parameters:
    
    			-	deviceIP, deviceOwner, deviceType, deviceMAC
    
* **Direct publisher client** : *Final python client to be run with both robot operations put together:*
	- **DirectPublishClient**: Final client with sensor-data being directly published to WSO2-BAM.
    - **RESTPublishClient**: Final client with sensor-data being published via a REST call to the service at WSO2-AS.


        


